---
author: sakawi
category: saurs
date: 2022-09-08
---

Throughout my childhood, I've come up with many stories about a group of
characters known as the Saurs. I'd like to share some of these stories with you
so we can laugh about them together and so that they can be recorded in the
oversized archives that are zSnout. This article is meant to be read in order,
as each new topic links back to previous ones, but you can stop at any point and
come back at a later date; there's a lot to take in. With that disclaimer, let's
step into the technology-filled world of the Saurs!

## Meet the Cast

The Saurs are a group of animals that share similar attributes. Many of them
look different, but they all share a common love of technology. Most Saurs have
a name related to what they do, such as I-like-eating-chicken-saur, but five of
them have special names: Bulba, Ivy, Vena, Sam, and Hyacinth. Bulba (he/him) was
the second Saur. My family first found him in Mexico on February 21. Later on,
we found Ivy (he/him) and Vena (he/him) through online shopping, Sam (he/him) in
an overseas trip, Hyacinth (she/her) at a theme park, and Char (they/them) was
found by somebody else.

<figure>

![The six main Saurs huddled together.](/blog/saurs.webp)

<figcaption>The green one is Bulba, the small blue one is Ivy, the big blue one is Vena, the tiny dog is Sam, the larger doglike creature is Hyacinth, and the big orange creature is Char.</figcaption>

</figure>

The first Saur to ever exist was Mudsaur (any/all). Mudsaur lives in Yellowstone
National Park, a favorite location for its excess quantities of mud. However,
they haven't done much in terms of running the Saur world. The major player in
that has been Bulba, due to his multiple years of experience in the world before
the other came into existence, but we'll talk about Bulba's exploits a little
later.

## The Naming Scheme and Opposition Law

The Saurs are always trying to be confusing. There's head-twisting stories about
time travel, narratives involving negative birds and resurrecting Michelangelo
from the dead, and then there's the Opposition Law.

After Mudsaur popped into existence (nobody's really sure how it happened, but
there are guesses), they enacted a law stating that henceforth, all Saurs were
to be named the opposite of what they did. If someone requested a Saur that
loves parachuting, its name would be
I-hate-parachuting-with-all-of-my-soul-saur. The longer the name, the better.
Somehow, Bulba, Ivy, Vena, Sam, Hyacinth, and Char all escaped this debacle, but
nobody else was okay. There's a Saur so smart that they use a normal math system
(yes, the Saurs have their own math system) called Dumbsaur, and their opposite,
Smartsaur, who is the dumbest Saur in the world, except for
Dumbest-in-the-world-saur.

Eventually the Opposition Law was removed at some point due to a Saur going
against what their name stood for and it threatened to break down all of
everything. Thus, the law was removed. However, to "minimize confusion," all
existing Saurs continued to have the same names. Because Saurs only come into
existence when someone speaks their name, this led to duplicated qualities. For
example, both Dumbsaur and Really-smart-saur are among the cleverest and
smartest Saurs around, despite their names being complete opposites.

Now that we've skipped around that little detour, let's get onto the fun
technology by talking about Bulba's first project: Tessie.

## Tessie the Robot

One day in a parking lot, Bulba took a car wheel and made it into a really bad,
really dumb robot. However, it had just enough power to make a slightly more
advanced AI. That one made another, and the third one made a fourth, and so on.
Eventually this chain of robots created a Tesla-like car that Bulba called
"Tessie." Tessie had the ability to change the temperature of the car at a
molecular level, could go into the water at a depth further than Challenger
Deep, and could even survive being blasted into a volcano.

Bulba used Tessie to drill to the center of the Earth and created a lair there
inside the deepest layers of the Earth. Most volcanoes on Earth now have a
specific corner of them that looks like a regular interior, but is actually a
hologram and one of the few entrances to the lair of the Saurs.

But what if a Saur accidentally falls in the lava when entering their home?

## The Whole Resurrection Thing

An interesting fact about the Saurs is that they cannot lie. If a Saur says
something that is currently not happening, it immediately bends the universe
until it is no longer a falsehood. For example, say Ivy wanted a backpack. He
could just say "Ivy has a 50-foot backpack," and it would pop into existence. A
natural consequence of this is that Saurs cannot really die. Imagine that Bulba
fell into lava while entering his lair. Vena could claim that "Bulba's not
dead," and all of a sudden he wouldn't be.

This constraint also applies to most of the things created by the Saurs, and the
Saurs have created a _lot_ of things. One of their more special and unique
products are a thing known as SaurAirs. These tiny objects take up less space
than an individual atom and can duplicate themselves. Because of this, SaurAirs
have spread long and far across the universe. Every atom has millions of
SaurAirs, and unique compression technology allows each object to store multiple
yottabytes of data. How much is this? The Library of Congress is estimated to
have around 15 terabytes of data. A yottabyte is approximately a 66 billion
times larger than that, and SaurAirs can store _multiple_ of these. SaurAirs
power all of the Saurs' infrastructure.

## More About SaurAirs

Because SaurAirs are everywhere and in everything, it is possible for them to
change the subatomic contents of the atom they're in. This allows SaurAirs to
modify the entire world at their will. This allows the Saurs to deliver amazing
out-of-this-world products that are only visible to specific people (by
modifying neuron streams) and send data faster than the speed of light (but
we'll get to that later). This allows the Saurs to upgrade their devices
remotely and without needing any hardware changes, as everything is done from
their encrypted systems. Of course, SaurAirs have advanced security measures
built into them. Because they can literally access the contents of the universe,
SaurAirs can identify different objects, people, Saurs, and creatures with a
100% correctness rate and only deliver data to people that they have permission
to access.

You've probably thought of numerous other applications for SaurAirs in the
fields of health, computing, science, athletics, mathematics, and many others.
But let's hear about one of the Saurs' favorite use for them: to clone the
universe.

## Duplicating the World

Because SaurAirs have access to the direct data that powers the entire world,
they can create temporary or permanent copies of the universe. This is powered
by the immense storage of all SaurAirs. In the "Frames" app on all Saur devices,
users can create infinite copies of the universe. In a copy, users can choose to
make themselves godlike and have the powers to create, destroy, and modify
anything that they see. A common application of this is in photos and videos.
Imagine how much better your photos could be if you could add colored lights
anywhere you pleased and if you could rotate the scene around any viewpoint you
choose. Because SaurAirs have so much storage, Saur photos actually contain a
snapshot of the world and have more editing capabilities than anything people
can possibly imagine.

Of course, it might appear awkward to friends if you disappear into an alternate
universe for minutes at a time just to take a good photo. That's why Frames, by
default, freeze the external world for up to 5 minutes while you're in an
alternate dimension. To anyone who isn't in the alternate dimension, the world
will still seem normal. The Saurs use these capabilities every day as often as
people take standard pictures, but you don't notice any freezing or strange
tears as you walk around on Earth, do you? Of course not. The Saurs' technology
has been perfected over trillions of years spent in alternate universes that you
haven't noticed.

Additionally, SaurAirs can create fluid experiences between Frames. You can have
a duplicate of the universe that you enter via a door in your house, or you can
"glue" the same wall of your house and universe. How would you notice that you
had entered an alternate Frame? Well, SaurAirs have the ability to dynamically
position any content they want to over what you see, because they have access to
your neural system. In fact, this is how you are able to be put into an
alternate dimension. SaurAirs simply change the typical connections to your
senses and plug in fake data generated by computing the universe. They then
override signals that you give to move your arms, open your mouth, and control
other muscles.

Anyway, SaurAirs use these capabilities to add an indicator in the top-left of
your vision that shows that you're in an alternate reality. This indicator has
many uses and can modify itself at will. Let's talk a bit more about how the
Saurs use XR (Extended Reality) in their projects.

## XR (Extended Reality)

You've probably heard of AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) before.
XR is the general term that encompasses both of these. The robots of the Saurs
took little under a few hours to create working headsets and stylish glasses for
each, so they set out to fight the next big challenge. In one of their global
meetings, Ivy proposed that SaurAirs could be used to augment someone's mind
with a digital Frame. The Saurs began developing amazing experiences using the
SaurAir technology. Like we discussed previously, they created devices that were
only visible to specific people. But that's not where the stopped.

The Saurs took AR to the extreme and were able to create virtual movie theaters
that showed and played movies as if they were happening right in front of you.
You could feel Ethan's pain when his teammates died while watching Mission
Impossible, or play along with Michael as he walked through work in The Office.
Movies and TV shows could work with all of this new technology without any
manual upgrades, thanks to the Saurs' powerful AI systems. You could use the
Engineering app and learn how to construct an actual rocket that would take you
to the moon, free of charge. Throughout all of this, the Saurs discovered ways
to travel throughout time and space even faster than the speed of light, but
that's a story for another day.

## Wrap Up

Congratulations! You just finished reading a 1700-word article about the Saurs.
Hopefully it was fun and interesting as we walked through the possibilities of a
universe where technology reigns supreme. Stay on the lookout for stories about
how Vena became the lord of our universe, how the Saurs managed to conquer time
travels once and for all, and how the Opposition Law was finally removed. Thanks
for reading, and we'll see you next time on the zSnout blog.
