---
author: Zachary Sakowitz
category: meta
date: 2021-12-09
excerpt:
  Many things stand out about zSnout that aren't seen in other websites. Let's
  explore zSnout's purpose, theme system, and offline capabilities.
updated: 2022-09-04
---

To me, many things stand out about zSnout that I simply don't see in other
websites. For example, zSnout has many subsites for different purposes whereas
most websites have one main purpose, it uses a different theming system that
other websites, and it was designed from the ground up to work as an app. I
think that's pretty cool, and I want to explore it more!

_This article was written about zSnout 5, a previous version of the site. Some
of these changes may no longer apply._

## zSnout Serves Multiple Purposes

One of the things I've seen with almost every other website (and most pieces of
software) is that they have a singular purpose. For example, Google Docs is
dedicated to providing a good writing experience, Khan Academy aims to teach
people different things, and YouTube is good at connecting people with videos
they'll enjoy. On the other hand, zSnout has lots of different content, as you
can tell from spending over three seconds on the homepage. One reason for this
is that it's mostly a hobby of mine because I like coding and I thought it would
be fun to have a website where I could present my code to other people.

## A Different Theming System

Another reason I notice that zSnout's different is in our theming system. Most
sites I've seen either use a white theme with an accent color or have a seperate
theme for when the user's in dark mode. On zSnout, we default you to using the
dark theme and allow you to choose which theme you want. Additionally, our
"dark" theme is mostly aqua because it's my favorite color and I like to feature
it prominently in things I make, whereas most websites use a strictly black
theme for "dark mode".

## It's an App?

To tell you the truth, I'm surprised at how few websites make themselves
offline-capable. With modern web technologies it's super easy to store pages for
later use. For example, try disabling your internet connection and reloading
this page. It'll still work because it's stored locally on your device. In fact,
any page you've visited recently will be stored on your device. You can also
install zSnout locally to your device as an application.

## All Code is Open Source

Another thing that makes zSnout different is that ALL of the code used in the
website is publicly available for download as
https://github.com/zsnout/zsnout.com. Because of this, it allows anybody to
submit an issue, bug report, or feature request. Other people can even
contribute code to zSnout, so long as they pass our security checks and manual
reviews.

---

In conclusion, I think that zSnout is a very different website than most, but
it's still a great site and has been a fun project for me to work on. I hope to
create something amazing that people will enjoy, and I hope to see more people
use zSnout in the future. Thanks!
